docs: update Kakao OAuth guide to reflect the latest Kakao Developer Console (#41681)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/social-login/auth-kakao.mdx

description: 'Add Kakao OAuth to your Supabase project'
---

To enable Kakao Auth for your project, you need to set up a Kakao OAuth application and add the application credentials to your Supabase Dashboard.

## Overview

Kakao OAuth consists of six broad steps:

> - Create and configure your app in the [Kakao Developers Portal](https://developers.kakao.com/changeLang?lang=en).

Author: The `changeLang?lang=en` parameter is intentionally included in these links.
The Kakao Developers Portal defaults to Korean on first visit, and there is no persistent
English-language URL without explicitly switching the language.

Using `https://developers.kakao.com/changeLang?lang=en` ensures that first-time visitors
are directed to the English UI, which is important for an English-language documentation
site like Supabase Docs.

For this reason, the language switch parameter is kept intentionally to improve
accessibility for non-Korean speakers.

Kakao OAuth consists of six broad steps:

- Create and configure your app in the [Kakao Developers Portal](https://developers.kakao.com/changeLang?lang=en).
- Obtain a `REST API key` - this will serve as the `client_id`.
- Obtain a `Kakao Login Client Secret code` - this will serve as the `client_secret`.
- Configure additional settings in the Kakao Developers Portal.
- Add your `client id` and `client secret` keys to your [Supabase Project](/dashboard).
- Add the login code to your [Supabase JS Client App](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-js).

## Access your Kakao Developer account

- Go to [Kakao Developers Portal](https://developers.kakao.com/changeLang?lang=en).
- Click on `Login` at the top right to log in.

![Kakao Developers Portal](/docs/img/guides/auth-kakao/kakao-developers-page.png)

## Create and configure your app

- Go to `App`.
- Click on `Create app` at the top.
- Fill out your app information:
  - App icon.
  - App name.
  - Company name.
  - Category.
  - App primary domain.
- Click `Save` at the bottom right.

## Obtain a REST API key

This will serve as the `client_id` when you make API calls to authenticate the user.

- Go to `App`.
- Click on your app.

> - Go to `App Settings` > `App` > `Platform Key`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to **App Settings** > **App** > **Platform Key**.
```

> - In the `Platform Key` section you will see `REST API key`. - this ID will become your `client_id` later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the **Platform Key** section is `REST API key`. This will become your `client_id` later.
```

## Find your callback URL

<$Partial path="social_provider_setup.mdx" variables={{ "provider": "Kakao" }} />

- To add callback URL on Kakao, go to `App Settings` > `App` > `Platform Key`.
- Click on the REST API key you want to use.

> - In the edit page, enter your callback URL in the `Kakao Login Redirect URI` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the edit page, enter your callback URL in the **Kakao Login Redirect URI** field.
```

- Click `Save` at the bottom right.

## Obtain a client secret

- Go to `App Settings` > `App` > `Platform Key`.
- Click on the REST API key you want to use.

> - You'll find your `Kakao Login Client Secret code` -- this will serve as a `client_secret` for your Supabase project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- YNote the **Kakao Login Client Secret code**. This serves as a `client_secret` for your Supabase project.
```

- Make sure you activate `Kakao Login Client Secret`.

## Additional configurations on Kakao Developers portal

- Go to `Product Settings` > `Kakao Login` > `General`.
- Set `State` to `ON` in the `Usage settings` section to enable Kakao Login.

> - Go to `Product Settings` > `Kakao Login` > `Consent Items`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to **Product Settings** > **Kakao Login** > **Consent Items**.
```

> - Set following scopes under the `Consent Items`: account_email, profile_image, profile_nickname

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set following scopes under the **Consent Items**: 
    - account_email
    - profile_image
    - profile_nickname
```

![Kakao consent items configuration](/docs/img/guides/auth-kakao/kakao-developers-consent-items-set.png)

> **Note:** On the Kakao Developers Portal, the `account_email` consent item is only available for apps that are registered as `Biz App`. To convert your app to a `Biz App`, go to `App Settings` > `App` > `General`, and complete the required fields in the `Business Information` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Admonition type="tip">

In the Kakao Developers Portal, the "account_email" consent item is only available for apps that are registered as "Biz App". To convert your app to a "Biz App", go to **App Settings** > **App** > **General**, and complete the required fields in the **Business Information** section.

</Admonition>
```

### Configuration

> 1. Set `State` to `ON` under [OpenID Connect Activation](https://developers.kakao.com/docs/latest/en/kakaologin/prerequisite#kakao-login-oidc) on Kakao Developers portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set **State** to "ON" under [OpenID Connect Activation](https://developers.kakao.com/docs/latest/en/kakaologin/prerequisite#kakao-login-oidc) on the Kakao Developers portal.
```
